DOC Improve performance section (#764)
silverstripe/developer-docs: en/02_Developer_Guides/08_Performance/08_Other_Optimisations.md

---
title: Other Optimisations
summary: Other performance optimisations
---

# Other optimisations

Here are some other backend performance optimisations that can be made.

## Increasing available resources

Silverstripe CMS tries to keep its resource usage within the documented limits
(see the [server requirements](../../getting_started/server_requirements)).

> These limits are defined through `memory_limit` and `max_execution_time` in the PHP configuration. These can be updated with [`Environment::increaseMemoryLimitTo()`](api:SilverStripe\Core\Environment::increaseMemoryLimitTo()) which will call `ini_set('memory_limit', <limit>)`, and [`Environment::increaseTimeLimitTo()`](api:SilverStripe\Core\Environment::increaseTimeLimitTo()) which will call `set_time_limit(<limit>)`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
These limits are defined through `memory_limit` and `max_execution_time` in the PHP configuration. These can be updated with [`Environment::increaseMemoryLimitTo()`](api:SilverStripe\Core\Environment::increaseMemoryLimitTo()) and [`Environment::increaseTimeLimitTo()`](api:SilverStripe\Core\Environment::increaseTimeLimitTo()).`
```
I don't think the inner working of those methods matters

Author: Updated

> [!NOTE]

> > Most shared hosting providers will have maximum values that can't be altered.

Reviewer: Why was this downgraded from a `CAUTION`?

Author: Reverted to CAUTION

For certain tasks like synchronizing a large `assets/` folder with all file and folder entries in the database, more
resources are required temporarily. In general, we recommend running resource intensive tasks through the
[command line](../cli), where configuration defaults for these settings are higher or even unlimited.

```php
// app/src/Services/MyClass.php
namespace App\Services;

use SilverStripe\Core\Environment;

class MyClass
{
    public function increaseLimits(): string
    {
        Environment::increaseMemoryLimitTo('256M');
        Environment::increaseTimeLimitTo(500);
    }
}

> ```

Reviewer: Move this to be just below where these methods are referenced.

Author: Updated

## Cache warming

> For sites employing caching, cache warming involves proactively populating the cache with frequently accessed data. This reduces cache misses and ensures rapid response speeds from the outset, providing users with up-to-date content efficiently.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Cache warming involves proactively populating the cache with frequently accessed data before the first request. This reduces cache misses and ensures rapid response speeds from the first outset.
```

Author: Updated

Author: Updated

Here are some strategies for cache warming:

> - Generate cache entries for the most popular pages or data on deployment, for instance by implementing the [`Flushable`](api:SilverStripe\Core\Flushable) on a class that then pre-fetches data.

Reviewer: `Flushable` is for flushing... I'm not sure what it has to do with pre-warming cache?

Author: Removed the mention of `Flushable`

> - Use a cron job to periodically regenerate cache entries.

Reviewer: But how do you actually do the "regenerate cache entries" part?

Author: That's kind of agnostic because we haven't mentioned the type of cache used. If it's endpoint data you could call the endpoint programatically. If it's partial caching on a template you might fetch the page somehow.

- Warm the cache whenever data is changed or added, such as by implementing the `onAfterWrite()` extension hook on your `DataObject`.

## Enable opcode cache

Enable an [opcode](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Opcode) cache such as [OPcache for PHP]([OPcache](https://www.php.net/manual/en/book.opcache.php)) to increase the performance of PHP code.

When PHP code is executed, it is first compiled into intermediate bytecode (opcodes). Without an opcode cache, this compilation occurs on every request. An opcode cache stores these compiled opcodes in shared memory, eliminating the need for repeated compilation and significantly reducing execution time for subsequent requests.

## Use a CDN

You can use a third-party Content Delivery Network (CDN) to cache and serve static assets (like images, JavaScript, and CSS) from servers geographically closer to your users. This has a few key benefits:

> - Static assets(images, JavaScript, CSS) are delivered from an edge server, speeding up load times.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Static assets (images, JavaScript, CSS) are delivered from an edge server, speeding up load times.
```

Author: Updated

- Decreases traffic to your main server, improving its performance.

> - Can provides additional security features like DDoS protection

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Can provide additional security features like DDoS protection
```

Author: Updated

> CDN's will typically respect existing [HTTP cache headers](http-cache-headers) which you can configure within your application.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
CDNs will typically respect existing [HTTP cache headers](http-cache-headers) which you can configure within your application.
```

Author: Updated

> ## Use a reverse proxy

Reviewer: This section must link to https://docs.silverstripe.org/en/developer_guides/security/secure_coding#reverse-proxies-and-forwarded-hosts

Author: Added

> Similar to a CDN, you can use a reverse proxy as an intermediary server positioned in front of your application. It intercepts client requests, offering significant performance and security benefits.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Similar to a CDN, you can use a reverse proxy as an intermediary server positioned in front of your application. It intercepts client requests and can offer significant performance and security benefits if configured correctly.
```
Just making it a little clearer that it's not a magic bullet - if you don't do it right you don't get the benefits

Author: Updated

> - Caches static assets (images, JavaScript, CSS) to serve them directly, reducing load on your application server and improving response times.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Some potential benefits reverse proxies can provide include:

- Caches static assets (images, JavaScript, CSS) to serve them directly, reducing load on your application server and improving response times.
```

Author: Updated
